THE EPISCOPAL vtsl'rfflon. 13

had not used that expression, though the whole Senate still bears
witness that he used it. So persistently do these people fancy
that they are free to say off-hand whatever they please and to
deny oli-hand what they have said, almost at the moment of
saying it. He said (5) that they had caten meat in Lent to the
scandal of the whole republic of Christ; though (6) this was
evidently not permitted by the gospels, they yet ventured to
declare that they might do it in accordance with the writings of
the Evangelists and Apostles ; they had violated (7) the decrees
of the Holy Fathers and the councils, and (8) a most ancient
custom which (9) we never could have kept so longii it had not
emanated from ¹the Holy Spirit. For Gamaliel in the Acts of the
Apostles had said: “ Let them alone3 for if this work is of God,”
etc. Then he urged the Senate (ro) to remain with and in the
Church, for outside of it no one had salvation. For (11) the
things which were b'eing taught so wrongheadedly were being
taught without grounds. And not having satisfied himself in what
he had said before about ceremonials, he fell (12) tospeaking of
them again, saying that they were the only means by which the
humbler Christians were brought to the recognition of salvation,
and that it belonged to the duties of the people's priests (ior
that is the way bishops and preachers are named now-a-days by
those counterfeit bishops, to keep their natue sacred) to teach
the simple-minded populace that there were certain symbols
which denoted certain things, and that it was their function to
explain and set forth the meaning and value thereof. At length,
after the above turn in his speech, he began to discourse (13)
upon grounds of offence, not unlearnedly, Ι confess, only I wish
that he had cited as happily the things against himself as those for
him. He added that Christ enjoined with as much emphasis as
he put upon any precept, that offences he avoided, for he added
that most clear mark of indignation, ‘⁴ Woe !¹’ “ Woe to the
world from offences !” Going back also to Paul, from whose
epistles he had quoted many things before he discoursed upon

 

