178 zwnrou ermenone

would therefore nrle in the Iord's stead, secretly lead into
captivity, and place a checlr on brethren's liberty. For however

you turn you need no new articles 3 divine providence does not
need your consent, which is nothing else thau conspiracy. But
thus heavenly visdom orders all things As often as we apply to
you the term “sect,”because you have withdrawn from the churches
that coniers and embrace Christ, you at once reply that you
cherish uo sect. And now you yourselves produce this beautiful
offspriog of yours. Is not he a hereric who has conspired unto
particular articles, though you with a more respectable nomeu-
clature denominate itan agreement? But now I turn to the
overthrow ol the foundations oi your articles, so that the world
may see that what you affirm to be divine is lanatical, toolish,
bold, impudent. This is not too severe.

Catabapnrts. First leam ol baptism. Baptiam should be
administered to all who have been taught penitence and change
oi lile, and who believe really that their sins are done away with
through Christ, and in general who wish to walls iu the resurrec-
tion οἱ Jeaus Christ, and who wish to be buried with himself into
death that they may rise again with him. So we administer it to
all who demand it and require it oi us themselves aiter this
manner. By this all baptism oi inlants is excluded-that chier
abomination oi the Roman pontifi. For this article we have the
testimony and support ot Scripture; we have also the custom oi
the apostles, which we shall preserve in simplicity and also in
firmness. For we have been made sure.

Reply. Behold, good reader, in how many ways these jugglers
impose upon the judgment oi the simple. For, first, who does
not know that baptism should be administered to all in Christ,
both penitents and those coniessing that remissiori ol sins is
found? There is no contest here, but whether it may be given to
those alone and not to their infant children. Second, they con·
ceal justification by works, aud though they admit remission ol
sins through Christ here, they clearly deny it elsewhere. For

 

